Foreword
My first introduction to robotics came via a phone call
in 1964. The caller was Fred Terman, the author of
the world-famous Radio Engineer’s Handbook, who
was at the time Provost of Stanford University. Dr.
Terman informed me that a computer science profes-
sor, John McCarthy, had just been awarded a large
research grant, part of which required the develop-
ment of computer-controlled manipulators. Someone
had suggested to Terman that it would be prudent if
the mathematically oriented McCarthy had some con-
tact with mechanical designers. Since I was the only
one on the Stanford faculty whose specialty was mecha-
nism design, Terman decided to phone me, even though
we had never met and I was a young assistant profes-
sor fresh out of graduate school with only 2 years at
Stanford.
Dr. Terman’s phone call led me to a close associa-
tion with John McCarthy and the Stanford Artificial In-
telligence Laboratory (SAIL) that he founded. Robotics
became one of the pillars of my entire academic career,
and I have maintained my interest in teaching and re-
searching the subject through to the present day.
The modern history of robotic manipulation dates
from the late 1940s when servoed arms were developed
in connection with master–slave manipulator systems
used to protect technicians handling nuclear materials.
Developments in this area have continued to the present
day. However, in the early 1960s there was very little
academic or commercial activity in robotics. The first
academic activity was the thesis of H. A. Ernst, in 1961,
at MIT. He used a slave arm equipped with touch sen-
sors, and ran it under computer control. The idea in his
study was to use the information from the touch sensors
to guide the arm.
This was followed by the SAIL project and a simi-
lar project started by Professor Marvin Minsky at MIT,
which were the only sizeable academic ventures into
robotics at that time. There were a few attempts at com-
mercial manipulators, primarily in connection with part
production in the automotive industry. In the USA there
were two different manipulator designs that were being
experimented with in the auto industry; one came from
American Machine and Foundry (AMF) and the other
from Unimation, Inc.
There were also a few mechanical devices devel-
oped as hand, leg, and arm prosthetics, and, a bit later,
some exoskeletal devices to enhance human perfor-
mance. In those days there were no microprocessors.
So, these devices were either without computer control,
Bernard Roth
Professor of
Mechanical Engineering
Stanford University
or tethered to a remote so-called
minicomputer, or even a mainframe
computer.
Initially, some in the computer
science community felt that comput-
ers were powerful enough to con-
trol any mechanical device and make
it perform satisfactorily. We quickly
learned that this was not to be
the case. We started on a twofold
track. One was to develop particu-
lar devices for SAIL, so that hard-
ware demonstrations and proof-of-
concept systems were available for
the fledgling robotics community to
experiment with. The other track,
which was more or less moonlighted from the work at
SAIL, was the development of a basic mechanical sci-
ence of robotics. I had a strong feeling that a meaningful
science could be developed, and that it would be best to
think in terms of general concepts rather than concen-
trate exclusively on particular devices.
Fortuitously, it turned out that the two tracks sup-
ported each other very naturally and, most importantly,
the right students were interested in doing their re-
search in this area. Hardware developments proved to
be specific examples of more general concepts, and the
students were able to develop both the hardware and the
theory.
Originally, we purchased an arm in order to get
started quickly. A group at Rancho Los Amigos Hos-
pital, in Los Angeles, was selling a tongue-switch-
controlled motor-driven exoskeleton arm to assist pa-
tients without muscular control of their arms. We pur-
chased one of these, and connected it to a time-shared
PDP-6 computer. The device was named Butterfin-
gers; it was our first experimental robot. Several films
demonstrating visual feedback control, block stacking
tasks, and obstacle avoidance were made with Butterfin-
gers as the star performer.
The first manipulator that we designed on our own
was known simply as the Hydraulic Arm. As its name
implies, it was powered by hydraulics. The idea was
to build a very fast arm. We designed special rotary
actuators, and the arm worked well. It became the ex-
perimental platform for testing the first ever dynamic
analysis and time-optimal control of a robotic arm.
However, its use was limited since the design speeds
were much faster than required due to the limitations
